# Stats 506 Fall 2020 Midterm Group Project
**Group Member: [Erin Susan Cikanek](https://github.com/ecikanek/Stats506_public), [Suppapat Korsurat](https://github.com/skorsu/Stats506_public), and [Kyle William Schulz](https://github.com/kylewschulz/Stats506_public)**  

This is a folder for the [Stats 506](https://github.com/jbhender/Stats506_F20) Fall 2020 Midterm Group Project.  

## Guide
This guide will focus predominantly on regression splines. Regression splines and other spline-like techniques
can be used as a smoothing technique for a predictor variable. Researchers interested in regression can gain
from exploring splines to account for a predictor variable that has a non-linear relationship with a 
response variable that may change over the domain of the predictor variable. This guide aims to help researchers
explore splines as a tool to improve their modelling abilities while staying in the field of regression. 

This guide focuses on piecewise step functions, basis functions, piecewise polynomials, cubic, and natural splines. 

## Statistical Software
This guide contains directions in three statistical softwares: Python, Stata and R.
* Kyle will be using Python.
* Erin will be taking over STATA
* Suppapat will be doing R.

## Data
We use the `Wage` data provided in the library `ISLR` in R. This dataset was created by the author of the book named [`An Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R`](http://faculty.marshall.usc.edu/gareth-james/ISL/). 

The dataset can be downloaded R software by using `library(ISLR)`and `Wage` command respectively or download directly from this site. You can found this dataset under the `Dataset` folder.

## Repository 
* STATA
** This contains the source code for the STATA example, along with images generated during the process.

* Python
** This contains the source code for the python example, along with images generated during the process.

* R
** This contains the source code for the R example, along with images generated during the process.

* Dataset
** This contains the source data used in the examples. 

* Group_6.rmd
** An r markdown file used to generate the final report. 

* Group_6.html
** An interactive html guide of the final report generated by the rmd file 

* Group_6_Project_Proposal.txt
** Our original project proposal 

## Final Guide Report
Here is the [link](https://raw.githack.com/skorsu/Stats506_Project/main/Group_6.html) to view the latest version of the project. The source code for this file is `Group_6.Rmd`.  
